---
title: Picks from autogenerated Freya Quotes (NSFW?)
author: yuvipanda
type: post
date: 2009-07-20T23:47:58+00:00
url: /picks-from-autogenerated-freya-quotes-nsfw/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 495188104
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - no
categories:
  - code

---
I love autogenerating text.

So I ran [Freya&#8217;s Blog][1] through a [markov chain][2] text generator, and it came up with a ton of potentially funny quotes that had me in splits for a while. Here are the best:

  1. They say its gonna kill me
  2. But still, his eyes are in no way good.
  3. Thank God I never pick it up.
  4. But hello, which parent accompanies a full-grown daughter to her lover
  5. When you win, nobody knows that she&#8217;s thinking of marriage.
  6. He&#8217;ll persuade me somewhow and then copy-paste this.
  7. And I&#8217;m blogging with a heavy suitcase full of new clothes (which aren&#8217;t really comfortable and I wasn&#8217;t flat-chested) but not sweet! Um..well..the dress isn&#8217;t bad but I was embarrassed.
  8. My Friend deserves better, so finally we&#8217;re here in the future.
  9. I didn&#8217;t want Economics, so they grow, safely and sweetly blossoming. By this time, the camera broke.
 10. It broke because, well, he was gorgeous!
 11. Considering the fact that I would&#8217;ve sat without realising that 59 people registered for the ball, gowns etc. But that&#8217;s very few blogs.
 12. Her reason ultimately was, you don&#8217;t really like the designs. But that&#8217;s what women want for being in a relatioship.
 13. If a women got molested, then she finally said &#8220;Okay, dear, I will have to pay so far and she still lurves him
 14. That&#8217;s stupid.
 15. If anyone has the official cleavage showing license, I don&#8217;t. Now, it&#8217;s not falling.

I swear these are all authentic computer produced text, and I think they _do_ have a &#8216;freya&#8217; feel to them. Don&#8217;t they?

Now, if there&#8217;s enough interest, I might even make this into a website, that throws you a quote everytime you hit it :P Or maybe I should target some other blogger? (/me eyes [Sathya][3])

 [1]: http://www.freya.in/
 [2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markov_chain
 [3]: http://sathyanarain.com