---
title: 'DevLog: Feb 2011'
author: yuvipanda
type: post
date: 2011-04-11T21:24:26+00:00
url: /devlog-feb-2011/
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - no
dsq_thread_id:
  - 331136949
categories:
  - devlog
tags:
  - devlog

---
_I&#8217;ve started keeping devlogs, recording everyday productive activity in an attempt to publicly shaming myselfinto doing something productive everyday. This is the delayed february editin_

Links: [32HourStartup][1], [PiTiVi][2], [TEDxSSN][3]

### Feb 26

Initial work on Busroutes.in wiki import script.

### Feb 25

Audio Save Dialog mostly works now.

### Feb 23

Started implementing Audio Name dialog box in PiTiVi. Dad fixed laptop &#8211; new Ethernet port, and working speakers. 

### Feb 22

Started doing layouts for WhyKCGRocks.com

### Feb 18 &#8211; 21

Spent at NIT Trichy. Gave GNOME Talk. Started on briclient. Discussed various models with Kishore (for the wiki). Helped lut4rp compile gstreamer. Started contributing to PyLINQ

### Feb 16

Worked on pitivi a bit more. Once recording is done, the track gets inserted into the timeline. 

### Feb 15

Worked on pitivi a bit. Moved recording inside main pipeline itself. Started #chennai-hackers for people from Chennai who are planning to do GSoC. Madhu, Karthik, Arun, Bala, Feroze on it so far. Fun! 

Wrote a simple color changer in gtk that is controlled by the wii. Roll controls hue and pitch controls s and v. Fun!

### Feb 9 &#8211; Feb 14

TEDxSSN, Banagalore, etc. Nothing got done.

### Feb 8

&#8216;Open House Project Day&#8217; demo at college. Showed off gstreamer based video streaming via nn ad-hoc network, then wii+torcs. Fun with gibberwocky :P

### Feb 5-6

32HourStartup. Ran around helping people out. Worked with Karthik and Madhu on a PHP/FB app. Fun :)

### Feb 3-4

More 32HourStartup stuff. Busroutes.in still down.

### Feb 2

Read ~100 pages of the libc manual. Worked on badges for 32HourStartup. 

Busroutes.in is down. DNS issue. Out of our control &#8211; We&#8217;re trying to bring it to our control. 

### Feb 1

Wrote &#8216;Functionalish&#8217; C# to be posted in response to the Accumulator in Java thread at fpug-c. Haven&#8217;t posted it yet.

 [1]: http://32hourstartup.com/
 [2]: http://pitivi.org
 [3]: http://tedxssn.com