---
title: My First Program
author: yuvipanda
type: post
date: 2012-01-07T21:39:13+00:00
url: /program/
aktt_notify_twitter:
  - no
dsq_thread_id:
  - 530693286
categories:
  - code
  - personal

---
Note: These are almost a decade old. Reproduced as close to memory as possible

My first memories of programming aren&#8217;t actually C. They were GW-BASIC, and later on, LOGO. I don&#8217;t remember any of my BASIC &#8211; but I do remember the look on my computer science teacher&#8217;s face in 5th grade when I managed to draw a flower with LOGO when everyone else was doing rectangles and lines. I vividly remember it &#8211; you draw an arc for a certain length, then stop, draw another arc in the reverse direction for the same length &#8211; and you have a petal. Then you just offset your next arc by a few degrees, repeat the previous thing, and you have another petal. Do this a few times such that `offset-degreese * count = 360` and you have a flower. That I could just modify the variables `length` and `offset-degree` to draw flowers as big, and with as many petals as you want &#8211; it blew my mind. This was in 5th grade &#8211; and I immediately started pestering my parents to put me in a programming language class outside (I had already gone to classes for _cough_MS Office_cough_ and DOS back then). And the SSI nearby happened to be teaching a reasonably cheap `Unix/C/C++` class.

The first thing I remember still is someone telling me &#8220;you don&#8217;t need to type out clearscreen(); &#8211; clrscr() would do&#8221;. This was TurboC, and to me, at that point of time, a &#8216;good program&#8217; was one that had a `getch()` call at the end and a `clrscr()` in the beginning :) 

The `Unix/C/C++` course &#8211; I don&#8217;t remember any Unix in it. And the C++ was disinteresting to me, because I saw no point in inheriting mammal from animal or car from vehicle. So I went about writing &#8216;C++&#8217;, which was basically C but with `cout` and `cin` instead of `printf()` and `scanf()` (I wouldn&#8217;t understand classes and how/why they were useful until I read _Hardcore Visual Basic 5_ and saw the ways classes are useful and how much it sucks that VB doesn&#8217;t have them). 

I had written a program called `DOSTutor` then (end of 5th grade, I guess?). It had screens and screens of text that &#8216;taught&#8217; you DOS commands, and then ones that made you type them in and &#8216;checked&#8217; it. Initially I had written it as a long series of `printf()` and `scanf()` statements. Suddenly some bulb went on and I realized I could cut my program size by about 90% if I separated code and data, and put the data (screen text and responses) into arrays. The feeling you get when you can reduce code drastically with no reduction in functionality (+ easier to make &#8216;fixes&#8217;) is quite incredible :)

But nobody ever used that program, so I wouldn&#8217;t consider that my first &#8216;program&#8217;. I spent the next year or so messing around with random `sound()` and `nosound()` calls producing &#8216;music&#8217; (including a few times when my code hit the `sound()` call, but crashed before the `nosound()` call &#8211; thus making the PC Speaker whine constantly, without any apparent way to turn it off. I used to just reset the computer then &#8211; until I learnt what exactly a `DOS System Call` meant. Then I wrote another small program that just called `nosound()`). I also remember messing around with BGI Graphics, mostly taking the example programs for `graphics.h` and modifying them to make somewhat-pretty figures.

My first &#8216;real&#8217; program was an implementation of a variant of [Book Cricket][1]. It even had a stored High Scores file. It was my stint at a &#8216;programming center&#8217; (SSI, for those who remember), and I kept it in a Network Drive that I accessed using &#8216;Map Network Drive&#8217;. The amount of fun that was had when I discovered `rand()` was quite something. It even beeped when you got out!

I lost it all in a server crash. Just do &#8216;Map Network Drive&#8217; once and it was no longer there. I think I came home and cried :(

What was _your_ first program?

 [1]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Forms_of_cricket#Book_Cricket