---
title: DevLog for 17 Aug 2014
author: yuvipanda
type: post
date: 2014-08-18T12:37:51+00:00
url: /devlog-17-mon-2014/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 2937227786
categories:
  - devlog

---
Devlogs again! Let&#8217;s see how long I can keep this one up.

Been a whirlwind few months. I&#8217;m moving to the Wikimedia Ops team soon! The Wikipedia app has been released! Lots of excitement around, should do a bigger post sometime with details. This should just follow usual devlog format of stuff for the day

  * Completed deployment of changing the results backend of [Quarry][1] to SQLite. That was a fun exercise, and I should write about that separately. Still have some unicode issues left (mostly from the MySQL side) that I&#8217;ve hacked around for now. 
  * Quarry now uses a cron based query killer instead of relying on Celery. The day before I had force killed the celery deamons and this meant the query kill tasks didn&#8217;t run, leaving zombie queries behind. The simpler cron based killer won&#8217;t have this issue, since it&#8217;s super simple and does only one thing. The only reason I didn&#8217;t do this before was that I had not known about `SHOW PROCESSLIST` before (yes, I suck). It seems to be working fine now, but doesn&#8217;t kill superseeded queries immediately. Should be interesting to figure out how to get that done properly.
  * I&#8217;ve started trying out [Atom][2] again. My previous attempt ended quickly when I ran into a bug which didn&#8217;t wrap text at all. A restart seems to have fixed that. The Vim keybindings are &#8216;ok&#8217; &#8211; there&#8217;s no `hlsearch`, which is painful, but I can live with it. I prefer the fuzzy finder in it to Ctrl-P in Vim.
  * Started working on making labs monitoring with graphite possible again. Our graphite / txstatsd roles weren&#8217;t meant to be run on trusty, so working on porting things to make sure they work fine on both. I&#8217;ve immensely come to appreciate ops over the last year or so, and am quite enjoying my work in that area :) I&#8217;ll probably be doing more of these over the next week, since Quarry has reached a nice state now and I await more usage before I spend more time on it.
  * Also did some code review on the Android app. It&#8217;s been chugging along quite happily these days :)
  * Ran into a awake-when-he-should-not-have been [Oliver Keyes][3] and we have conspired to start some [researchy][4] [things][5]. I cleaned up some of the python code, and am writing out things to do. This should be fun!

 [1]: https://quarry.wmflabs.org
 [2]: https://atom.io
 [3]: http://blog.ironholds.org/
 [4]: https://etherpad.wikimedia.org/p/flagellating-funnel
 [5]: https://github.com/Ironholds/WPDMZ