---
title: 'Private: Death'
author: yuvipanda
type: post
date: 2014-12-01T14:40:41+00:00
draft: true
private: true
url: /death/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 3279767835
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Phil Hughes [died][1] a few days before he was to turn 26. I&#8217;ve been lucky enough to have never felt the loss of someone I loved &#8211; all deaths in my family that I deeply cared about happened when I was too young to notice. I&#8217;ve never been truly affected by death &#8211; it always seems to be a thing that happens to other people. I&#8217;ve tried hard to empathize, but perhaps I do not have a capacity to unconditionally love, which provides a (bug/feature?) of not being as affected by it.

This one, however, somehow shook me up. He was 25, not much older than me. He was a &#8216;up and coming superstar&#8217;, someone with acknowledged natural, instinctive skills in a niche that has seen him do incredible things at a young age, and then fading. Someone who was supposed to have _time on his side_, and it was just a matter of time before he did something &#8216;great&#8217; (according to the traditions of the niche).

Then he faced what was an otherwise harmless ball, got hit on the neck, and never recovered.

This somehow feels very&#8230; personal. I didn&#8217;t know him. Can&#8217;t pick his face out of a group. I took glee in (c) Guptil (b) Martin. Yet&#8230;

My biggest fear perhaps is captured somewhat well in HPMOR. Quoting&#8230;

> Harry had always been frightened of ending up as one of those child prodigies that never amounted to anything and spent the rest of their lives boasting about how far ahead they&#8217;d been at age ten. But then most adult geniuses never amounted to anything either. There were probably a thousand people as intelligent as Einstein for every actual Einstein in history. Because those other geniuses hadn&#8217;t gotten their hands on the one thing you absolutely needed to achieve greatness. They&#8217;d never found an important problem.
I&#8217;m narcissistic as fuck, incredibly self centered, and seem to have a rather big ego. I&#8217;ve worried that I&#8217;ll never reach the amount of focus, concentration that I was able to get when I was younger. I know that I&#8217;ve grown as a human being a lot in the last 4-5 years, at the expense of growing as a programmer. I wouldn&#8217;t trade one for the other.

But all that is predicated on the fact that I don&#8217;t plan on dying. Sure, I might not be taking care of my body like that (RSI, Super unfit, smoking, I believe I&#8217;m also an alcoholic now). Whenever I&#8217;ve thought about death it has been fairly impersonal &#8211; I won&#8217;t be around to experience it, so why bother? People would move on. People will perhaps not forget &#8211; some of them at least. But life moves on. It has to. No other way around it. So why bother thinking about it?

But I could be hit by a car tomorrow. My right hand might just stop working, which is worse than dying. What then?

I do not know. I think I should be happy with life &#8211; all the objective and subjective measures I&#8217;ve had growing up of &#8216;what I want to be&#8217; are all pretty much accomplished now. I built a small personal mountain of things and I want to do and then suddenly found myself airdropped on top. Now what? Local maxima, maybe.

I can not commit myself to anything long term &#8211; people or places (although the former seems to be changing). I do not seem to stay in a place long enough to make strong physical connections. I&#8217;m aimless, floating around wherever the current takes me, with ocassional bouts of drowning in depression. Each day merges into another, not in mindless boredom but exciting new things / exciting old things.

Life is too good, and I&#8217;m being whiny. Augh.

I&#8217;m scattered. I don&#8217;t seem to exist as a single coherent entity. Feel like I&#8217;m drifting, dissipated across everywhere.

Maybe I&#8217;m already dead? Maybe some part of me died and I didn&#8217;t know.

 [1]: http://www.espncricinfo.com/australia/content/story/803649.html