---
title: “Things”
author: yuvipanda
type: post
date: 2015-07-26T00:13:29+00:00
url: /things/
dsq_thread_id:
  - 3971054132
categories:
  - personal

---
I&#8217;m writing this post in an attempt to catalog the list of things I own so I can evaluate if I really need them and get rid of them.

  1. 15&#8243; rMBP 
  2. Kinesis Keyboard
  3. Apple Trackpad
  4. Moto X
  5. Kindle
  6. Nexus 7 (To be returned to the WMF)
  7. Broken Nexus 4 (To be backed up and then&#8230; something)
  8. iPod Touch
  9. Earphones (Soundmagic E10)
 10. Headphones (AudioTechnica ATH M50)
 11. Battery Pack #1
 12. Battery Pack #2
 13. MiFi (US Only)
 14. Multi USB Charger + 6 USB Cables
 15. Bluetooth Speaker (JBL Flip 2)
 16. Assorted Medication (in several loose covers, need to consolidate)
 17. Toiletries (Emergency Soap, Toothbrush, Toothpaste, Hair Gel, Shampoo, Conditioner)
 18. Velcro Rolls
 19. Box of Leaves
 20. Octopus
 21. Letter in Envelope
 22. Universal plug convertor
 23. Physical paper notebook
 24. Nailcolor
 25. Glasses + backup glasses
 26. Small Green Foldable Bag
 27. Pens
 28. Wallet with assorted currencies and cards
 29. Raspberry PI
 30. Assorted USB chargers (accumulated from various devices)
 31. Wrist Straps (left and right)
 32. Beard Trimmer

Clothes:

  1. 14 Underpants 
  2. 23 Socks (not 19 pairs &#8211; I had given up on pairing socks a long long time ago)
  3. 8 T Shirts
  4. 3 pairs of cargo shorts
  5. 1 pair of jeans
  6. 3 Jackets of varying thickness
  7. 1 Down Jacket
  8. 1 Scarf
  9. 1 pair of thermal underclothes
 10. 2 Towels (1 slightly fluffy, 1 microfiber)

I&#8217;ll try and keep this list updated.

Decluttering actions:

  1. I gave away assorted USB Power chargers and Plug convertors &#8211; I have now a universal plug that should be good enough, and 3 USB power adaptors of various sizes. I should probably trim down the number of cables I have